okay afternoon everyone and welcome to
the elastic load balancing deep dive and
best practices session my name is Dave
Brown I lead the elastic load balancing
team as well as a few other teams within
AWS I've been at amazon for a little
over nine years started out on the ec2
team and then sort of stayed within that
organization for the nine years and have
been running an elastic load balancing
for about the last three years so we've
had a lot happening on elastic load
balancing this year a few changes we
launched a new load balancer so
hopefully as we go through the session
today you'll learn a little bit more
about elastic load balancing in general
but also application load balancer which
is the new load balancer we launched so
let's dive in so what is elastic load
balancing so elastic load balancing
automatically distributes incoming
application traffic across multiple
applications microservices and
containers hosted on Amazon ec2
instances so prior to August we did not
support the micro services and and
contain a use case so we were
instance-based we've added that and I'll
talk a little bit more about that later
the next slide looks at a few of the
sort of advantages of using lb so the
first thing is the word we really like
in the cloud is we're elastic and what
that it means is you create a new load
balancer and that load balancer was
scaled to meet your incoming traffic if
you want to live and see yourself you've
got to worry about scaling that load
balancer making sure it's highly
available you got to care and feed it
with a lb you create the load balancer
register your back in instances and the
load balancer will scale dynamically and
secondly and super important is is we're
secure so we pay a lot of attention to
the security of the load balancer but
also features that allow our customers
to be highly secure features such as
managed SSL and what are the very best
ciphers and protocols to use on your lb
we also integrated and what that means
is we integrate with up to fourteen
different AWS services so whether it's
cloud front for the EO cloud watch sorry
for the elb metrics or it's auto scaling
for dynamically scaling your back-end
fleet we integrate route 53 4 dns we're
very integrated you know confirmation
number of services that are integrated
with elb and then finally we're cost
effective so the cost of you'll be
significantly cheaper than actually
running the load balancer yourself if
you had a run a load balance on ec2 it
would almost certainly cost you more
than actually using an ALB so it is
quite a good deal so as we think about
building an application I'm sure many of
you have had an architecture that looks
like that not when i'm recommending it's
not a best practice but it's it's where
a lot of us thought right we build an
application on a single instance you
maybe even put your database on that
instance you everything's only one
machine and you're showing others this
application works well not something
that's recommended obviously there are a
couple of challenges there one that
machine could fail if that machine dies
obviously the web server goes down or
whatever you have secondly if your
traffic spikes well you know that
machine is not going to handle the
certain amount of traffic and the other
thing that we kind of take for granted
and I was I was a software engineer back
in the day at amazon as well and we
don't realize just how good load
balances make us look as software
engineers and we have things like
garbage collection in Java where your vm
stalls you may have memory issues some
of you guys that right see and what is
just basically doing a certain bail out
of the application if anything happens
the load balancer just papers over all
of that any time something like that
happens the traffic just magically goes
elsewhere so yes he has a solution that
I would recommend or an architecture
that looks a little better right so yeah
we have an elastic load balancer taking
traffic and spreading that traffic over
three instances any of those instances
fail load balancer will automatically
detect and shift their traffic job to
the Romanian instances with auto scaling
you can automatically scale that back in
fleet and the load balancers in the
scale dynamically as well if the traffic
increases so it takes care of a lot of
those challenges we just spoke about
it's it's highly available I want to go
into a couple of details we don't
normally talk about internal
architectures of AWS services but this
is one way I think it's important to
understand so every single elastic load
balancer utilizes multiple availability
signs even if you as an application
developer isn't doing that for your
application obviously it's highly
recommended but something that we do so
here's the architecture so essentially
on the right-hand side there you can see
we have the customers VPC and that would
be you and your VDC
and on the left-hand side we have the
elb VPC so we actually run in a VPC just
like you do on ec2 so we're we're also a
demanding customer of the ec2 team we
then have some subnets in each
availability zone and as you can see
there we have an lb in the subnet on the
top and he'll be in the subnet on the
bottom as well forward in that traffic
into your subnet so we're pretty much
running alongside you we have the
ability to get there traffic securely
injected into your VPC one thing I want
to cover this has become more important
with the the recent launch of
application load balancer is we starting
to explain to customers really what are
the different types of load balancing
there are two different types of load
balancing the first one which we talk
about is network or your your TCP load
balancing or if you really understand
the networking layers you talk about
layer for what this does is this really
basically connection based load
balancing so requests are flowing
through the load balancer but we're not
looking at any of those requests we just
handing those packets and forwarding
them to the back ends and that supports
things like TCP and SSL client
connections are bound to a server
connection so every single time a new
request comes in it's actually bound to
a back-end instance that will never move
there's no header modification so we
pretty much can't do anything with that
request we just we just pass those
packets through if you want to know
about the source IP of a client that's
connecting to you there's no
x-forwarded-for header nothing like that
because we can't actually do anything
with the request so there is a there's a
feature called proxy protocol which
comes from h/h a proxy world which
allows you to forward the destination
the source IP through to the destination
so that's layer 4 on the other side
we've got layer 7 and many of you might
be more familiar with these or prefer
these features and that's what we call
an application load balancer and or HTTP
and HTTPS now this is where we every
request that's coming in we waiting for
all the packets to arrive and
reassembling the HTTP requests we're
looking at the headers we're doing a lot
of work in the load balancer and the
connections are actually terminated at
the load balancer and then we have
connection pools to your back-end
instances you'll see us open up multiple
connections to your backends and we'll
use those connections to forward the
requests and obviously headers may be
modified like we may insert an
x-forwarded-for header with the source
IP of the original requester so for many
years since 2000
nine two thousand yep 2009 ELB is
supported both on a single load balancer
so we've had what we call now the
classic load balancer previously I
didn't have an ammeter need a name was
just he'll be now it's the classic load
balancer it's supported both layer of
four and layer seven but the layer seven
support has been it's been okay there's
some decent features in there but it's
it's not the depth of layer seven
support that many of our customers have
been looking for and really what you see
in there is very much Amazon's approach
to load balancing amazon internally we
actually treat load balancers very
simply we just basically if you have as
long as you give me a verb an IP I can
talk to back in instances a health check
and the ability to send traffic we're
good to go anything else we're going to
probably put into our application stack
but many of our customers are really
looking for a richer layer 7 experience
hopefully many of you so in August we
announced the application load balancer
I chatter to a few customers who said
they only heard about this ad reinvent
this week so it's been announced since
August and been available and customers
have been using it between seeing great
adoption so give you some idea of the
features so we look at classic it
supports TCP and HTTP whereas
application because it's only
application its layer 7 it's only
supporting HTTP and HTTPS from a
platform point of view so now we're
looking at the ec2 network architectures
the classic supports both easy to
classic it's not confusing at all as
well as ec2v pc so while the application
load balancer supports VPC only so if
you have any applications that are still
running on the classic network thank you
for being on AWS for such a long time
and let us know if we can help you with
the migration from a health check point
of view classic supported health checks
but the application load balancer is
some nice improvements which you'll talk
about a little bit later Claude watch
metrics obviously they both support
those although we we took a long look at
our cloud which metrics and I think
we've improved them quite nicely and
then some things that the application
layer balance supports that are new so
the first one is in the world of content
based routing and that so we allow path
based routing so this means i receive a
request and that request i can actually
look at the packets and forward it to a
different back-end based on the path of
the request and then obviously container
and micro service support that's massive
given our customers are moving to
containers and
in native web socket and HTTP to support
so we we're catching up with all the
modern internet applications so let's
take a deep dive into that application
load balancers so the first thing to say
is it's it's we didn't just change
classic load balancer we've built an
entirely new load balancing platform
right pretty much a large part of it is
brand-new so because of that we wanted
to be very transparent with our
customers we didn't want to go and
change things behind the scenes you know
the classic load balancer interprets
HTTP in some subtly different ways of
times to the way that the application
load balancer does so we want to say
fully transparent with our customers
it's a new load balancer if you move to
this test it see how it works for your
application let us know if there are any
challenges what we've seen so far almost
all of our customers that come back and
said it's amazing working really really
well for us and I applications it's
obviously fully managed scalable and
highly available just like the classic
load balancer was and then it supports
the content based routing feature super
important feature as I said earlier so
the really big benefit of that is that a
single application load balancer can
actually host multiple applications
whereas previously we look at the
classic load balancer again your single
Lil B could host a single application
right and if you don't want to host
multiple applications well the way to
solve that and the solution was well
just use DNS so in this example we have
application handling our orders and we
have an application and in images for
our website and what I do is I just use
DNS so when from my client or from my
web browser when I want to go to orders
I do orders dot example calm and that'll
router to the load balance at the top
and when I want the other one I do
images and it routes via dns the load
balance at the bottom that works fine
you are paying for to load balances and
you having to manage to load balances
and that you know it could be better so
what application ability lets you do is
well let's just have one dns name let's
just have example.com and now in the
path I've got the word orders or images
so using paths based routing which I can
set up as a routing rule the conditions
going to say if anything in the path
matches orders and you can use wildcards
here as well basic Club functionality
forward that to the target group so that
blue box is called a target
fold that to the target group for orders
and if anything has the images forward
that to the images application at the
bottom and today you can have up to ten
rules in your application load balancer
so you can host up to 10 different
applications behind a single load
balancer great big benefit so it's a
mess is a significant cost saving if
you're running multiple load balancers
just because you have single
applications you can go down to a single
load balancer use paths based routing
today and have one application and one
other one load balancer so you could
decrease your hourly cost obviously your
bandwidth costs will be roughly the same
assuming you're sending the same amount
of traffic one thing we see customer
says that's fantastic I've currently got
hundreds of load balancers I'm going to
go down to one load balancer so what you
do want to think about is you think
about your architecture you could do
that could be supported but we think
about blast radius on isolation so if it
was me doing this for my team's running
application their balance I'd probably
look at an application load balance of
this service or maybe per service team
you know we have the two pizza teams at
Amazon something where you know the
service teams operating that load bones
they have full control rather than one
load balancer for the company just you
know trying to risk the single point of
failure or configuration nightmare that
that could turn into so we have multiple
applications behind a single load
balancer cost saving improvements
management improvements it's a big
change next we want to look at the
ability to support micro service
architectures and container based
architectures so obviously application
not balanced I can do that otherwise it
would have been an irrelevant slide but
the way we do it is multiple ports so
with classic load balancer you had a
register an instance with the API and
when you did that you can only give us
one port at a time for that instance and
then you were done for that instance if
you try to give us that instance again
we would tell you that instance is
already registered so it meant running
containers on a single instance is
incredibly challenging because when you
run a contain an architecture regardless
of you know what platform you're using
it's going to try and select dynamic
ports so you have no control over the
port that it listens on not all your
containers can listen on 80 because
there's only one port 80 available in
that box so they are going to choose a
dynamic ephemeral
hort essentially and your load balancer
needs to be able to use those so with
application load balancer when you
register an instance you can give us a
port and that together is unique so you
can give us that instance again as long
as the port's different you can keep
registering so you can register in
instance many times as you like well the
sea 65,000 also and we will write
requests on those ports so it gives you
the ability to carve up a single
instance if you use Amazon ecs which is
the ec2 container service ecs will
actually manage all of this for you so
you just tell the cses my task there's
my load balancer and it'll actually
launch those containers and register the
land for load balancer automatically you
don't to think about it so but don't
don't think that it's only supported
with ecs even if you're not running
containers you're just run in a few
applications on a single instance and
they're listening on different ports you
can still register that instance
multiple times with the same load
balancer on different ports so that's
the that's the big functionality there
so to give you some idea of how this
works I mean you know in this slide we
had ec2 instances as part of the target
group again the target group is the
logical grouping of machines behind the
load balancer the blue dotted blue line
you know we can turn those into
containers so I just turn them into
containers so now you have ecs
containers running there and you can mix
and match as long as your target groups
only contain like ec2 instances or
containers but you know you kind of run
the same thing keep your target our
groups imaginas but you can have target
group some of them are easy to instances
some of them containers as you as you
move the application so again keeping on
the cost saving theme with containers
one of the great things is is you get
better utilization of your ec2 hardware
so you can carve up a single ec2
instance now into much smaller chunks or
slots and drive up the utilization of
that machine whereas previously with elb
you may have had wasted capacity on
those back in instances because maybe a
t2 micro was too big for your for your
micro service right and you still had
wasted capacity now you can really get
all the capacity out of that so that's
containers so that's like a bit of the
API so is a very interesting for us
because you know
I did a lot of work on the ec2 control
plane maybe I shouldn't have told you
that but we really prioritize backwards
compatibility right so we like many of
you guys have done API work what is the
number one rule in designing API it's
like don't bake backwards compatibility
like find a way to make this thing work
and when we launch this feature we broke
backwards compatibility and we took us
about nine months to get to a place
where we felt good about it okay with it
and the reason for it is we realized the
original elb API was just too simple we
we went at it with every single angle to
try and put all this layer 7
functionality into it we couldn't make
it happen so eventually we said you know
what customers want this functionality
and we can actually give them a better
API that solves a couple of the
challenges we've had on the old API some
of the design decisions we made if you
wanted to change and this future focus
so you can support all the layer 7
features we want to do you know going
forward if we just broke backwards
compatibility and I'm happy to tell you
that all the customers i've spoken to
have been happy with that decision so
the one time in my career that I've
broken backwards compatibility and I've
gotten away with it so I think it's been
good obviously the SDK integrates this
cloud formation integration so it's very
easy to do but you'll see it is a new
API the console if you use the console
it's exactly the same experience you
don't even know that it's using a
different API behind the scenes we've
also it's a newer API now so it follows
a lot of the best practices that AWS has
learned over the years the original elb
api was 2009 which was early days we've
also got quite a few new resource types
so previously we had a load balancer it
was very simple at a load balancer you
added instances to it to support all the
new functionality we've added things
like target groups targets and rules so
I'm going to walk you through what this
sort of the sort of model of the API
looks like so you can understand a
little bit better and think about how
you would map your application to an
application load balances so obviously
we still have a load balancer we didn't
get rid of that and we still have
listeners which we had previously so
what is a listener well a listener
defines the port and the protocol on
which the load balancer listens sounds
pretty obvious now that I said so if you
want a website listening on port 80 what
you would do is you'd basically say I
want HTTP or ideally HTTPS
on port 80 and that listen we then start
listening and accepting incoming
requests you can have at least you have
to have at least one listener per load
balancer and you can have up to ten
listeners right if you need more than
that obviously just like easy to
instance limits you can always come and
talk to us and we see if we raise it for
you routing rules the ability to route
this context based routing path based
routing are defined on your listeners
right so we all got what listeners are
so let's go to the next now we're
looking at target groups so what I've
shown you there is the the dotted target
groups and you can see how about three
target groups in this architecture
together with health checks so logical
grouping of targets behind a load
balancer so we called them targets we
haven't called them ec2 instances right
now we support ec2 instances and
containers but they targets right target
groups can exist independently from the
load balancer so you don't have to you
can have a target group defined and just
add the resources to it and at some
point map it to a load balancer or map
it to multiple load balancers and the
other really nice thing is targets are
regional but they can be associated be
associated with an auto scaling group so
you can actually have an order skating
groups canning each one of those target
groups individually so they separate
applications their scales differently
but you want your auto scanning to scale
them individually so that's target
groups so let's build the picture up and
I health check service you defined on
the target group so now we're looking at
the targets so I added the ec2 instances
there so what is a target so if your
targets a logical load balancing target
and today it can be an ec2 instance a
micro service or a container and it can
be registered with multiple ports we
spoke about that and a single target can
be registered with multiple target
groups so if you have an easy to
instance and you actually wanted to
exist in multiple applications or
toasting across multiple applications so
I think stopping you from just taking it
instances in registering at multiple
times you do need to be a little careful
this is a lot of rope we're giving you
you can come up with some very
interesting architectures I have seen
some incredible architectures that
customers have come up using this so you
want to just keep thinking about
availability and maintainability but you
can do some interesting stuff so we've
got there so how do we link these
together all right so it's a no
traffic's flowing yet because I've got
my load balance of my listeners my my
targets but I haven't linked them
together so let's
link them together so obviously we link
them together with something that we
can't read and that's his rules all
right so we looking at the rules there
so in the middle you got the the default
rule you've got an image rule and I
think you've got an orders rule so we do
support a default rule a default rule
means if this request doesn't match
anything in the path or none of my other
rules just send us to that target group
so you can have a load balancer with
just one default rule and one target
group it'll work perfectly fine very
similar to what the classic load
balancer does but you can fall back to
default as well or have more specific
ones so we look at rules what a rules
support today so they provide a link
between the listeners and the target
groups and they consist of conditions in
action so every rule is a condition and
then what action do you want to follow
today we have one action which is the
forward action which will forward a
request to a target group and so when it
requests arrives we look at the
condition we run through all the rules
when we find one that matches we
forwarded to that target group if we
don't find one as matches and you have a
default we will use the default if
there's no default we will return a 5 is
3 and today you can do path based rules
so you have to give us a path pattern
and you can use a deposit obviously
case-sensitive can be up to 128
characters in length and those are the
various characters that can be included
in your normal URL star path so there
was a whirlwind tour of what the
architecture looks like but you can kind
of see how it all hangs together it's
all available in the console very
cleanly laid out and yeah api's are nice
and clean and new as well so should be
pretty straightforward so let's see if
we can pull a rabbit out of a hat here
so today we have load balances that
support up to 10 rules so we launched
with that we said who could possibly
need more than 10 rules what turns out
most people actually need more than 10
rules so we decided okay well let's
remove that limits so in the very near
future you come talk to me we can make
it sooner you can have it set up to 100
rules but it's like a hundred days in
you can have 20 ec2 instances on a new
account we can raise that up if you want
so we're sort of removing the limit from
rules so it'll be available publicly in
the next few weeks but we do have a
better available now oh the other thing
we added was deletion protection every
now and then I get a frantic call from a
customer
Dave I just deleted my main load
balancer can you help me and some of the
times we can we go in and we see oh look
those IPS are still available and we can
kind of reconstruct the thing we
actually have an API internally that's
just undelete the customers load
balancer now so we decided we decided
rather than making my engineers do that
all the time it doesn't happen too often
we should probably give it a customers
so amazing feature you can actually say
don't let me delete this load balancer
via the API and then if you try and
delete it it says sorry you can't delete
it then you have to go and remove the
deletion protection and then you can
delete it right so good feature to use
application load balancer provides
improved performance for Internet
applications all right so we spoke about
this a little bit earlier but there are
a few things in here if you're running
an application on the internet and you
don't even have a need for path based
routing it's a really good idea if it's
HTTP to consider application load
balancer so some of the things there's a
native support for web sockets basically
web sockets been around for a year or
two basically allow full duplex
communication so we have a lot of
customers doing it for things like you
know Twitter feeds and your sports feeds
where you've got an iPad you want to
connect to the load balancer and you
from a server you want to be pushing
content to the iPad or push into the
device its web sockets are letting
you're doing so previously customers
would use TCP load balancing on classic
now you get full WebSocket support HTTP
to obviously the newer version of HTTP
protocol significant improvements to
page load load time so you can do sort
of multi multiple pages load multiple
requests to the server at the same time
so we support HTTP two out of the box as
well and then improve performance for
real time in streaming applications as
well so classic load balancer if you
were doing very large downloads or
you're trying to do streaming through
the load balancer there were some
challenges there is used to do quite a
bit of buffering and that's not great
when you're streaming application load
balancer solves all of those problems
important tip so there's no additional
configuration required to use web
sockets or HTTP to I've actually thought
about adding a check box to the console
that does nothing at all just to say i
want web sockets and I want HTTP too
because the number of customers that I
said how do i turn on web sockets and
HTTP to it's on by default it's just on
the load balancer it actually happens
all in the request path so websockets
will be upgraded automatically to a
WebSocket connection you don't have to
do anything so we have another Hatter
beer plastic load balancers have offered
ipv6 support for some time actually
that's since around jun 2011 there's
actually a day every year called ipv6
day international ipv6 day and we
launched ipv6 support on plastic load
balancers back in 2011 we've we've also
supported them on both classic and VP
see if you if you do want ipv6 on VPC we
can we can give it to you that kind of
doesn't matter because in the coming
weeks native ipv6 support is available
on all application load balancers so
obviously envy pc is only and this is
full i PB six the other thing that's
going to be available is ipv6 on ec2 so
you'll get full ipv6 between ec2
instances egress to the internet
everything ok the world's been waiting
five dv6 for like 20 years now so ok and
then improvements to the application
availability and scalability of the load
balancer so these have been you know if
i look at where we spend our time on elb
since I've been on the team number one
priority oh this 33 we have three number
one priorities security availability and
scalability we just cannot drop the ball
at any of those I mean you know if you
have a load balancer does something
strange it's infuriating and we just
have to make sure that they are highly
available and highly scalable all the
time so if we come back to you know that
we all realize that this wasn't the
architecture that we really wanted you
know we'd only be building applications
like that we wanted to be super highly
available let's look at a few things
we've improved in application load
balancer so the first one I spoke about
a little while ago is health checks and
they allow for traffic to be shifted
from an impaired or failed instance so
this is a health check behind the load
balancer and the way this works is the
instances are running along they all
take in traffic you suddenly have one
instance that has some sort of problem
right the CPU starts to spike if you had
an infinite loop or you memory issue
whatever it might be the health check
will start to fail to that instance so
we stopped sending traffic there and
that all happens within a few seconds so
you know
often less than a second so the soul
check run it runs every few seconds as
soon as you detect a failure which you
can define to you to find what your lb
going to call we will ship traffic away
when the instance becomes healthy again
will shut that traffic back again with
auto scaling as well you can set auto
scaling up so that if any instance fails
the health check it'll actually remove
that instance out of service and replace
it as well so that even the mitigation
of a failed instance can all be
automated so we look at what we support
so with application load balancer
obviously it's not tcp health checks
it's just HTTP and HTTPS you can
customize the frequency the failure and
the one thing you can do that you
haven't been able to do previously is
the list of threat the actual return
type so successful response codes I'm so
previously on classic load balancers you
had to send us a 200 we didn't send us a
200 we consider to be a failure and lots
of applications return like 30 ones my
health checks and other things now you
can say to us hey if I give you a
response just just accept it right and
then the one I like the most is detailed
reasons for health checks I actually
showed by the API an database management
console and this was one of the largest
number of stem support contacts for elb
was why is my health check failing so
based on that feedback we just thought
maybe it's a good idea just to tell you
in the API in the console so if you help
to explain it all now say hey we've seen
a timeout what we see in a connection
error or you know we actually returning
some code that doesn't match so you'll
actually see that in the console just
saves us in awesome out of time and it
saves you an enormous amount of time and
then the other change keep in mind is
with classic load balancer if all your
health checks fail so if you fail all
the health checks to your backends we
will return five or threes so we say all
instances are unhealthy let's return
five or threes with application oil
balance that we've taken a different
approach we say if all those machines
fail we're actually going to fail open
because if anythings everything's down
we may as well trying to send the
traffic somewhere it's very likely that
the connection is going to fail we sent
a 5 a 3 anyway but if everything fails
we're going to fail open and there's one
of the one of the great things with this
approach is we do have from time to time
customers that have configured their
health checks that are too deep in the
system right so you may have a customer
we've we've seen situations customers
have every health Jake hit their master
database and if it does
get a successful response to that master
database and by the way there's only one
of those monster databases but there
might be 10 application service and that
master database has some sort of hiccup
all those servers go out of service and
what would have been just a few seconds
of impact on the master database now all
of a sudden you took all your servers
out of service and your whole
application is returning 5 or 3 s so
this will actually protect you against
that situation but there there's another
point A or best practices think about
the depth of your health checks ideally
for me most health checks should really
just check the health of the machine
behind the load balancer like try and
avoid like hitting a website out on the
internet which I've seen before as well
and you know you don't you just ideally
keep it isolated and be careful of
things that are regional as well so
you've got a regional resource that
you're trying to include in your health
check my guidance estimate you keep them
as shallow as possible and think deeply
about them because it is a risk it's
less of a risk on application imbalance
because we do fail open still not great
and I'm sure if you've been around any
AWS employee for even five minutes
they'll give you this advice always use
multiple availability zones and we spoke
a little about how lb does that you know
we always run in multiple availability
zones and what I want to show you guys
even if you are only in one zone we will
actually route there traffic from
another zone through to you and our goal
is really to never have an elastic load
balancer fail so you know if we have any
problem in a zone we will always be able
to serve the traffic out of the other
zone and that traffic will automatically
shift from a failed zone using route 53
so all that is actually automatically
done via dns and I mean I would often
have customers you do you say well I run
in one's own because of cost and cost is
a serious concern sometimes we don't to
spend the cost for additional zones so
we actually at Amazon we typically
always run in three zones two zones
where they're available if these three
zones will always choose three zones and
the reason being is being in one zone is
an availability risk because you know we
say that's a unit of failure isolation
if that fails and we could lose his own
we guarantee you'll never lose two zones
for the same reason at the same time
then want to really be in one's own well
let's go to two zones so in this example
i'm trying to say i need six machines to
always have enough capacity so if i go
to two zones well now i'm going to make
say if i lose his own i still want to
have six machines so six left fix i need
12 machines now
two zones to actually handle all of my
requests because I got to be scaled
enough to lose his own well what happens
if we go to three zones so if we go to
three zones well now I if I lose one's
own I'm still going to have six machines
and to do that I need to have three
machines in each zone if you guys do the
math on that which I did before the talk
to make sure is correct that's actually
only nine machines so I only need 9
machines now not the 12 machine so
actually running in three zones can
often be cheaper than running into zones
to be scaled feel your load an
application that balance that will
support that so one of the things we do
see is there's sometimes multiple
challenges well at least one I'm going
to talk about you are running in running
in multiple zones and one of those is
your clients are resolving dns to enter
the zone so sometimes you'll have dns
providers that catch dnas so you'll have
clients that just resolve dns once and
never do it again job is actually pretty
bad at that right unless you set the X
header Java will actually do that
resolves that it's light up but never
does it again and they very sticky to a
lot of one IP but you get these sort of
imbalances in traffic and that can often
cause as you can see there you know one
of your zones to be running a lock take
a lot more traffic than others and the
way we solve that is we actually just
use a physical crosser load balancing
which I actually send the traffic from
the load balancer to multiple zones
behind the scenes and the great thing
there is you just see all your zones
just get the exactly the same amount of
traffic it's actually even better than
that because my clicker is not working
here so what does actually doing is this
this should be in there traffic so
evenly that you get the same amount of
traffic in each zone and the other thing
is even if you have an imbalance in ec2
instances even if you have one instance
in one zone and three and another the
zone with three is going to get three
times the amount of traffic and there's
only one since get enough for that one
instance it actually does it at a per
target level so you get a much better
case all your targeting at the same
amount of traffic and then the really
amazing thing is there's no additional
bandwidth charge for the crossbow in
traffic so we actually removed the
normal bandwidth chargeable cross zone
out of this so you can do this with the
lb and not pay for that cross on traffic
bandwidth charge and cross around load
balancing is actually enabled by default
on all application loader
so on classic load balancers it wasn't
enabled by default but I'm cross the
application balance so we said it is you
actually currently cannot turn it off
it's not disabled bill but they are
valid architectures where you actually
do want to turn it off you want to be
very very zonal so we are going to be
adding the feature to allow you to
actually disable cross and load
balancing and then auto scaling one of
the big changes i mentioned earlier auto
scaling will actually not scale at the
target group level so to give you some
idea of how that works so we've got to
target groups here with ec2 instances in
them taking a certain amount of traffic
traffic to the target hoop at the bottom
increases you use the cloud which
metrics with auto scaling to tailor to
start adding machines and all the
scaling will actually scale it up so I
mean obviously makes sense given that
you've got different applications hosted
behind your load balancer they do in
very different things your orders could
get a lot less traffic than your images
you can see spikes on the different ones
you want to scale them independently so
if you use application load balancing
auto scaling can scale the applications
independently or at different target
groups then one of the one of the things
that actually took me a while to realize
this as well as many of you have
applications which have a daily peek all
right so you where we have at Amazon
obviously retail we have a fairly
substantial daily pic every day and we
see that many of our customers have the
daily peak and they're in their traffic
flow when you're using auto scaling and
you actually follow in that line of
trying to scale your machines to that
kind of remember you're at peak all the
time because when you actual when you're
at your lowest point like mentally you
think you know it's not a hit not a busy
time for the service right now we're at
the low point but you've taken away all
the capacity so we have sometimes seen
customers actually at the lowest point
every day running 25 or 3 s and surge
queues and problems with the load
balancer because they just haven't
realized that I'm actually running kind
of at peak all the time because it's
it's utilizing just just enough capacity
all the time so just something to think
about what the lb and auto scaling is
you can actually see problems at your
lowest point to be taken away too much
capacity and then our security features
so back in 2014 we was well timed given
it was a couple of months before
heartbleed some of you may remember that
event we we took a look at our ssl
ciphers and protocols and he said you
know customers it's become so
complicated like every month veneering
about some new vulnerability and what
should i do and it takes a lot of time
to become an SSL expert and if you ask a
lot of the security experts they'll
often tell you well this is the set of
ciphers and protocols you need to use
and when you actually go have a look
that I mean they're super secure and the
reason they secure is no web browsers
yet implemented support for those
diapers and protocols so we had that
with internally in Amazon we were given
us some advice similar to that one so so
we said well as elb we need a staff up
and we need to take control of this we
need to make sure all of our customers
are but the very best ciphers and
protocols and we can't expect them to be
experts in this so we we added with ssl
offloading we added SSL negotiation
cycles and the way we do this is I have
a couple engineers on my team that are
very involved in the SSL community calm
McCarthy gave a talk earlier about a
version of pretty much an SSL openssl
kind of library that we've written
ourselves that's been open sourced great
talk I'm sure it'll be on YouTube if you
missed it but we said we've taken a look
at all the ciphers and protocols
understand deeply all the
vulnerabilities the other thing we do is
we run all of amazon.com traffic that's
one of the great things that Amazon me
just go grab that entire traffic stream
and say okay let's run this through an
ALB and let's see what happens wasn't
the live traffic it was just a siphon
some more we run all of that life or
siphon their traffic off and we then go
and look and we add the siphon we see oh
wow if we add that cipher we can see we
see a thirty percent drop in clients
being able to connect to us we could
obviously see the user agents as well so
we can see oh well look at all the you
know windows XP machines just dropped
off we'd better put that one back and so
we do that and that gives us the
absolute best ciphers and protocols for
your application based on pretty much
every user agent we can find out there
be a couple other ways of doing that as
well as well as the ability to connect
so the very best security best practices
and the ability to connect from it wider
range as clients as possible so if
you're using classic we always recommend
use the latest SSL policy if you've
defined your own policies on classic
that's fine take a look at how they
differ and maybe have a look at you know
whether you should just migrate to the
manage one on application load balancer
all
policies are managed so you'll always
get one of our managed policies we just
think that's a better way to go just
given all the problems we've had in the
last few years in the space the other
thing we added last last year was a CM
integration and thanks to actually
completely forgot about this one and
somebody in the audience told me about
this beforehand thank you and I'm like
let me go at a slide quickly so that was
I was doing up here so this slide is hot
off the press but we have a cm
integration so a cm is Amazon
certificate manager and what gives you
free certificates so you basically go to
Amazon Civic managing give me in it it's
a cell certificate they'll give you one
and you just then associate that with
your lb super easy to do in the best
part you never have to think about it
again because when that certificate
comes up for renewal amazon certificate
manager actually manages the renewal
process now I don't know about you but
I've never had an ssl certificate
expired me unexpectedly and all of this
and it's free as well so it's an amazing
service if you're not using that or you
coming up for renewal absolutely think
about using ACM alright we have another
hat that's pretty cool so application
load balancer currently today's support
security groups so you can you can
control traffic to your load balancer
with security groups right so you can
specify sliders and say only one people
from within my organization to connect
some customers that said hey you know
that feature on Todd front called woth
website application firewall and be
pretty cool to have that on elb so we
thought so as well so we've added where
to eat application load balancer and
that'll be available in its soon in the
coming weeks so with that you'll
basically be able to well actually have
a slide for that so with a website
application firewall basically monitors
and protects website application for
malicious activities so any requests
coming through gets inspected by wife
you can configure rules to either allow
or block or count and you can do things
like sequel injection cross-site
scripting bad actor ip's bad BOTS HTTP
flood attacks and I know they're going
to be adding more and more and more
rules so you can go into the web service
and you can configure this once you've
got all your rules and they've got some
great custom rules there were previously
defined rules you just associated with
the elb and we'll take care of that so I
think that's a pretty cool feature
coming in the neck
movies and then we look at monitoring so
we improved some of their load been on
some monitoring as well so obviously
we've worked out how to have a highly
available application how to ice
multiple applications so we need about
the monitor this thing so how much
metrics promise metrics have been there
on application on elb for some time we
added them some time but on application
load balancer we've we've made some
improvements so they provide detail
insight into the load balance of traffic
they all provided at the one minute
granularity so if you if you are using
that feature in Cloud Print come watch
sorry you can get that and metrics are
provided with application load balancer
metrics are provided at both the global
application level at the load balancer
level as well as at the target group
level so again you want to be able to
see metrics of the target group level
because those are different applications
they're going to behave very differently
and you can go figure tard watch alarms
you can also integrate with auto scaling
so any one of these metrics you could
integrate with auto scaling and see if
that metric spikes scale up if it goes
down scale scale down so that's what a
look at a couple of the metrics very
briefly and give you an idea of you know
what are they how do they behave what
are they for so firstly healthy host
count it's the counter the healthy
instances behind your load balancer or
behind the time group and it's important
to consume that at the zonal dimension
if you see this failing normally when
this fails it's your health check is
failing the most common reason for a
health check failure is a timeout so
those health checks take what you give
you one second to respond to us we don't
respond in one second we consider you to
be failed right to keep that in mind
normally it's a timeout the other one is
latency so latency measures the time
from the point that you'll pack it
leaves the load balancer into your
application to when we first see the
response that's how we measure latency
so it doesn't include the load balancer
time and we provide min max an average
of that we also have access logs you
talk about shortly and then we have a
rejection count as well so important
difference here application load
balancer doesn't use surge queues the
search q is basically when a request
comes in and your back-end applications
are all super busy we don't have
anywhere to send it to we will store it
in a load balancer for
time on classic lab and so will store up
to 1,000 requests per IP address in your
load balancer but one thing we've
learned at Amazon over the years the
search cubes are normally a bad idea and
the reason for them is you get a clients
out there calling you their thread pulls
are stuck waiting on your load balancer
they're not doing any more work they're
waiting for a response and by the time
you're 10 second or 10 minutes or
whatever the outage is over you're now
going to go back and process a couple of
thousand requests that are ten minutes
old and that client is long gone so
actually with surge accusing actually
gets a situation where a failed load
balancer can actually cause other
services to fail as well you just
everything gets stuck on this load
balancer so it's much better to actually
fail early let the client re try and get
fresh requests so with application load
balance so we don't have search q so we
have a rejection council you can
actually see a number of requests that
were rejected by the load balancer
because you have anywhere to send them
so if you see this metric go and scale
up your backends that's what you do add
more capacity will add more threads on
your backends or add more connect your
connection limits whatever you need to
do an Apache and then on the target
group so we got to target group metrics
so those are the metrics to provide and
a few others as well at the load
balancer level and then we have these
ones at the target group level so you
get great visibility into 200 300 400
unhealthy healthy host count as well as
the target response time actually coming
latency coming back from the target and
then about two weeks ago we actually
launched cloud watch percentiles and
these are pet so we spoke about min max
and average and that's what you've had
previously now you can actually go and
say give me the p90 and we say p90
internally and Amazon give me the 90th
percentile which means I want to know
what's the kind of ninety percent of my
customers are seen that latency or
better and the way that I run all of my
teams at amazon just generally at amazon
actually is we all focus on the 99th
percentile so when we launched a new
service will say what is your p99 and we
watch that all the time so watch p99 and
the thing is we're saying 99% of
customers are seen that latency or
better right and once your p99 is like
nice and flat then you say okay p 99.9
time and then you say okay start
watching that and that's how we drive
ourselves and set aggressive targets all
the time to get that latency down so
we'd never ever look at average almost
never look at an air
metric we're always looking at
ninety-nine ninety-nine point nine
percent off and that's your Eddie
looking at that one Oh point one of a
percent of customers that are you having
a bad day all right so we launched this
last week i think it was and then you
can see that's what the graph would look
like so the green line is your p99 yeah
p99 the yellow one is a p90 and then the
other ones your p50 the p50 is a little
different from average but you get that
view so great visibility into the the
performance of your application and then
so that's where you wanna get a general
view with cloud watch and what are your
what are your metrics looking like if
you want to get down to an individual
requests coming through your load
balancer you want to go and say why did
that request fail that's where we have
access logs so you can enable access
logs and every single request that comes
to your load balancer gets logged to an
access log and delivered to s3 either
every five minutes or every 60 minutes
you can go and set that up right you can
decide what interval you want includes a
lot of stuff request time client IP
Layton sees request path server
responses ciphers and protocol so we
actually tell you what cipher and
protocol that client negotiated with so
we think about our ciphers if you want
to go turn off the cipher but you want
to know who you're going to impact you
can actually turn on excess legs and go
and have a look decide whether you
should really disable this a cell b3 do
you have any customers out there that
would not be able to use that this is
brand-new again last week request
tracing that sounds pretty cool what
this does is it inserts a unique
identifier for every single request
going through the ALB if we so you send
a new request at ALB will actually add a
unique identifier to the X amazon trace
ID header and if that request goes
through another lb will actually append
that you identify as it gets appended
and this obviously if you guys saw the
release of amazon x-ray today this is
feeding information to amazon x-ray so
if you go and log this information in
your application or folder for the x-ray
AP is now you're going to get request
tracing all the way through from when it
very first hits an lb coming from the
internet all the way through your
application and you can get down into
very very very detailed analytics with
with this functionality so we're pretty
excited about that so we've spoken about
quite a bit of stuff and I guess one of
the big questions we have uncovered yet
is when should I use application load
balancer so I mean it sounds pretty cool
so when should we use it the wind should
win when shouldn't we use it so we come
back to this picture keep in mind that
application load balancer only supports
HTTP and HTTPS so obviously if you have
a TCP load balancer when ssl load
balancer you'd want to stay on the
classic load balancer and continue to
use that for all other load balancer use
cases we rarely recommend trying
application load balancer as I said for
vast majority of customers we've seen
improved performance with it you can set
it up in a very simple way we've spoken
about a lot of complexity today just a
single default the console makes it
really easy by the way it takes you
three and like three clicks to set it up
register your instances and get started
very quickly so with that it's been
great talking to you I do hope it's been
useful I hope you've shared some good
facts and thanks for coming